Acacia
Protection, psychic and spiritual enhancement, money, platonic love, and friendship. Use to anoint candles & censers and to consecrate chests or boxes that hold ritual tools. Use in incense to promote a meditative state.
Also Called: Gum Arabic, Arabic Gum
Aconite	Use aconite as a magical wash for ritual tools & space. Wear as an amulet for protection from vampires and werewolves. Note: Poisonous, do not consume.
Also Called: Wolfsbane, Monkshood

Acorn	Good luck, protection, wisdom, and personal power. A dried acorn is an excellent natural amulet for keeping a youthful appearance.
Adam & Eve Root	Principally used by lovers; one lover carries the Eve Root & the other lover carries the Adam Root. This keeps your lover true to you & discourages rivals. Carry both roots in a small bag at all times for attraction, to bring a love to you, or for a marriage proposal.
Adder's Tongue	Stops gossip and slander, promotes healing. Sacred to serpent goddesses. Used in divination, healing magic, lunar magic, and dream magic.
Also Called: Dogtooth Violet

African Violet	Spirituality, protection, and healing. Wear in an amulet for protection. Keep in the home to increase spirituality. Frequently burned as incense during the spring Equinox sabbat.
Agar Agar	Promote joy and success, attract opportunities and blessings to the household. Mix with Fast Luck powder and rub on hands before playing bingo or other games of chance.
Agrimony	Overcoming fear & inner blockages; dispelling negative emotions. Also used for reversing spells. Sew into a dream pillow with Mugwort for best results. Use as a wash or oil to increase the effectiveness of all forms of healing rituals. Wards off evil entities and poison.
Ague	Protection, hex breaking. Used in amulets to protect against evil. Mix with incense and burn to break a hex that has been placed on you.
Also Called: Ague Root, Ague Weed

Alder	Associated with divination, music, poetry, wind magic, weather magic, teaching, and decision making. Also used in rituals of death & dying to provide protection for the deceased.
Alfalfa	Money, prosperity, anti-hunger. Put a small jar in the cupboard or pantry to ward off poverty and hunger. Burn in a cauldron and use the ashes in amulets for protection from hunger and poverty.
Also Called: Lucerne, Buffalo Herb, Purple Medic

Alkanet	Purification, prosperity. Protects from snakebites and helps ease fear of snakes. Burned as an incense to replace negativity with positive influence.
Also Called: Anchusa, Dyer's Bugloss, Orchanet, Spanish Bugloss

Allspice	Money, luck, healing, obtaining treasure. Provides added determination and energy to any spells and charms. Burn crushed allspice to attract luck and money. Use in herbal baths for healing.
Also Called: Jamaica Pepper

Almond	Wisdom, money, fruitfulness, and prosperity. Invokes the healing energy of the deities. Provides magical help for overcoming dependencies & addiction. Associated with Candlemas and Beltane. Carry, wear, or use as incense to attract abundance.
Also Called: Greek Nuts, Shakad

Aloe	Protection and luck. Place on the grave of a loved one to promote peaceful energy. Thought to relieve loneliness and assist with success. Hang in the home to attract luck and protection for those who live there. Grow in the home to provide protection from household accidents. Burn on the night of a full moon to bring a new lover by the new moon.
Also Called: Burn Plant, Medicine Plant

Althea Root	Burn or place in a sachet to bring protection, calm an angry person, and aid psychic powers. Keep on the altar or burn on candles to attract good spirits.
Alyssum	Protection and moderating anger, protection.
Amaranth	Healing, summoning spirits, healing broken hearts, protection from bullets, and invisibility.
Amber	Protection from harm, outside influences, and psychic attacks. Mental clarity & focus. Transforming negative energy to positive energy.
Ambergris	Enhancing dreams and psychic ventures, attracting men.
Anemone	Healing and Protection
Angelica	Very powerful protection herb - protects against negative energy and attracts positive energy; creates a barrier against negative energy. Use in healing & exorcism incenses; scatter for purification, protection, and uncrossing. Add to incense to promote healing or to the bath to remove curses, hexes, or spells. Also thought to promote temperance. Sprinkle ground herb in the shoes to prevent tiredness and weakness. Sprinkle around the outside perimeter of the home for protection and exorcism. Burn to bring a lost love back to you.
Also Called: Masterwort, Archangel, Garden Angel, Angelica Root

Anise	Used to help ward off the evil eye, find happiness, and stimulate psychic ability. Fill a sleep pillow with anise seed to prevent disturbing dreams. Use to invoke Mercury and Apollo. Great for aromatherapy. Use in purification baths with bay leaves. A sprig of Anise hung on the bedpost will restore lost youth. Use in protection and meditation incenses.
Also Called: Aniseed, Anneys, Anise Seed

Apple	Love, Garden Magic, Immortality, Friendship, Healing. Place seven apple seeds in a bag with Orris Root to attract sexual love. Use in rituals to give honor to gods and goddesses of fertility. Considered the food of the dead, which is why Samhain is called the 'Feast of Apples'. Symbolizes the soul and is burned at Samhain in honor of those who will be reborn in the spring. When doing a house blessing, cut an apple in half -- eat half and put the other half outside of the home as an offering.
Also Called: Fruit of the Underworld, Fruit of the Gods, Silver Brough, Silver Branch, Tree of Love

Apricot	Love. Add leaves and flowers to love sachets or carry apricot pits to attract love.
Arabic Gum	Protection, psychic and spiritual enhancement, money, platonic love, and friendship. Use to anoint candles & censers and to consecrate chests or boxes that hold ritual tools. Use in incense to promote a meditative state.
Also Called: Acacia, Gum Arabic

Arnica Flowers	Increases psychic powers
Arrow Root	Purification and healing; can be used as a substitute for graveyard dust.
Ash	Sea spells/magic/rituals, image magic, invincibility, protection from drowning, general protection, and luck. Burning an ash log at Yule brings prosperity. The leaf of this plant is used for travel safety. Place one tablespoon of ash leaves in a bowl of water in the bedroom overnight, then toss out in the morning -- doing this daily is said to prevent illness.
Asofoetida	Protection and banishing negativity. Be forewarned that this herb is powerful, but has an awful smell when burned.
Also Called: Devil's Dung, Food of the Gods

Asparagus	Male Sex Magic
Aspen	Eloquence, clairvoyance, healing, and anti-theft. Plant in your garden for protection against thieves.
Aster	Love
Also Called: China Aster, Michaelmas Daisy, Starwort

Astragalus Root	Protection and energy
Avocado	Love, lust and beauty. Also used for sex magic.
Also Called: Ahuacotl, Alligator Pear, Persea

Azalea	Happiness, gaiety and light spirits, first love. Note: Poisonous, do not consume.
Bachelor Buttons	Love
Also Called: Devil's Flower, Red Campion

Bakuli Pods	Difficult to find magic item also used in sachets and potpourri.
Balm of Gilead Tears	Love, manifestations, protection, healing, de-stressing, and assisting in healing from the loss of a loved one. Use in love sachets; carry for healing, protection, and mending a broken heart. Use to dress candles for any form of magical healing. Burn to attract spirits.
Also Called: Poplar Buds, Balsam Poplar, Balm of Gilead, Mecca, Mecca Balsam, Balessan, Bechan

Balmony	Steadfastness, patience, and perseverance. Associated with the tortoise or turtle.
Also Called: Hummingbird Tree, Bitter Herb, Snake Head, Turtle Head, Turtle Bloom

Balsam Fir	Strength and breaking up negativity; Insight, progress against goals, and bringing about change. Balsam fir needles can be burned on charcoal as an incense and also make a great ingredient in sachet bags, dream pillows, and potpourri mixes.
Bamboo	Hex breaking, wishes, luck and protection. Carve a wish into bamboo and bury it in a secluded area to make your wish come true. Carry a piece of bamboo for good luck.
Banana	Fertility, potency, and prosperity
Banyan	Happiness, Luck
Barberry	Cleansing, sorcery, atonement, freeing oneself from the power or control of another.
Also Called: Witches Sweets

Barley	Love, healing, and protection. Harvests. Scatter on the ground to keep evil at bay. Tie barley straw around a rock and throw into a river or lake while visualizing any pain you have to make the pain go away.
Basil	Love, exorcism, wealth, sympathy, and protection. Dispels confusion, fears & weakness. Drives off hostile spirits. Associated with Candlemas. Carry to move forward in a positive manner despite perilous danger. Strewn on floors to provide protection from evil. Sprinkle an infusion of basil outside of the building where you hope to be employed for luck in a job interview (be careful not to be seen!) or in your business to attract money and success. Wear or carry to aid in attracting money and prosperity.
Also Called: Common Basil, Sweet Basil, St. Josephwort, St. Joseph's Wort, Tulsi, Tulasi, Krishnamul, Kala Tulasi, Witches' Herb, Alabahaca, American Dittany

Bat's Head Root	Use in spellwork, rituals, gris gris bags, etc. to obtain wishes.
Bay Laurel	Purification, house and business blessing, and clearing confusion. Attracts romance. Keep potted plant to protect home from lightning. Place in a dream pillow for sound sleep and to induce prophetic dreams.
Also Called: Bay, Sweet Laurel, Sweet Bay, True Laurel, Lorbeer, Noble Laurel, Baie, Daphne

Bay Leaf	Protection, good fortune, success, purification, strength, healing and psychic powers. Write wishes on the leaves and then burn the leaves to make the wishes come true. Place under the pillow (or use in dream pillow) to induce prophetic dreams. Place in the corner of each room in the house to protect all that dwell there. Carry bay leaf to protect yourself against black magic.
Bayberry	Good fortune, luck, healing, and stress relief. Burn a white candle sprinkled with bayberry bark for good fortune and money.
Also Called: American Vegetable Tallow Tree, Myrtle, Wax Myrtle, Candleberry, Candleberry Myrtle, Tallow Shrub, American Vegetable Wax, Vegetable Tallow, Waxberry, Pepperidge Bush, Berbery

Bedstraw (Fragrant)	Love and lust
Bee Pollen	Friendship, attraction, love, strength, happiness, and overcoming depression.
Beech	Wishes, happiness and divination. Improves literary skills. Place a leaf of beech between covers of Book of Shadows to increase inspiration.
Beeswax	Traditionally used for making candles, decorative seals, natural polish, protective finish, and use as a base for herbal salves.
Beet	Love. Beet juice can be used as ink for love magic or as a substitute for blood in spells and rituals.
Belladonna	Healing & forgetting past loves. Provides protection when placed in a secret place in the home. Place on a ritual altar to honor the deities and add energy to rituals. Note: Deadly poison, do not ingest.
Also Called: Banewort, Deadly Nightshade, Sorcerer's Berry, Witch's Berry, Death's Herb, Devil's Cherries, Divale, Dwale, Dwaleberry, Dwayberry, Fair Lady, Great Morel, Naughty Man's Cherries

Benzoin	Purification, prosperity, soothing tension, dispelling anger, diminishing irritability, relieving stress & anxiety, and overcoming depression. Promotes generosity and concentration. Good to burn while using the Tarot or for success in intellectual matters. Smoulder for purification. An incense of benzoin, cinnamon and basil is said to attract customers to your place of business.
Also Called: Snowbells, Storax, Gum Benzoin, Siam Benzoin, Siamese Benzoin, Benzoin Gum, Ben, Benjamen

Bergamot	Money, prosperity, protection from evil and illness, improving memory, stopping interference, and promoting restful sleep. Carry in a sachet while gambling to draw luck and money. Very powerful for attracting success. Burn at any ritual to increase its power.
Also Called: Orange Mint

Betel Nut	Protection and banishing
Bilberry Bark	Used for protection.
Also Called: Whortleberry, Black Whortles, Whinberry, Huckleberry, Bleaberry, Blueberry, Airelle

Birch	Protection, exorcism and purification. A birch planted close to the home is said to protect against lightning, infertility, and the evil eye.
Also Called: White Birch, Canoe Birch, Paper Birch, Tree of Life, Lady of the Woods

Bistort	Fertility, divination, clairvoyance, psychic powers. Carry in a sachet for fertility and conception. Add to any herbal mixture to boost divination. Burn with frankincense during divination or to enhance psychic powers. Carry in a yellow flannel bag to attract wealth & good fortune. Sprinkle an infusion of bistort around the home to drive out poltergeists.
Also Called: Bistort Root, Dragonwort

Black Cohosh	Love, courage, protection and potency. Use in love sachets or in the bath to prevent impotence. Carry in pocket or amulet for courage and/or strength. Sprinkle around a room to drive away evil. Add an infusion of the herb to bath water to ensure a long and happy life. Burn as a love incense. Put in purple flannel bag for protection for accidents and sudden death and to keep others from doing you wrong.
Also Called: Black Snake Root, Bugbane, Squawroot, Bugwort, Rattleroot, Rattleweed, Rattlesnake Root, Richweed

Black Haw	Protection, gambling, luck, power and employment. Carry in the pocket while seeking employment, if you are having problems at work, or if you are asking for a raise.
Also Called: Devil's Shoestring, Stagbush, American Sloe

Black Pepper	Banishing negativity, exorcism, and protection from evil.
Black Walnut	Access to divine energy, bringing the blessing of the Gods, wishes.
Blackberry	Healing, protection and money. Sacred to Brighid. Leaves and berries said to attract wealth and healing.
Bladderwrack	Protection, sea spells, wind spells, money, psychic powers, and attracting customers. Wear in a charm for protection during travel, especially when traveling by water.
Also Called: Kelp, Seawrack, Kelpware, Black-tang, Cutweed, Sea Oak, Sea Spirit

Blessed Thistle	Purification, protection against negativity and evil, hex breaking. Carry for strength and protection. Place a bowl of blessed thistle in a room to renew the vitality and strengthen the spirit of its occupants. Men who carry thistle become better lovers.
Also Called: Holy Thistle, Saint Benedict Thistle, Spotted Thistle, Cardin

Bloodroot	Love, protection, and purification. Steep in red wine for a full cycle of the moon to use as a "blood offering" for spells that call for this -- DO NOT DRINK THE WINE. Place in windows and doorways to keep curses and evil spirits out. A favorite root for use in voodoo to defeat hexes and spells aimed against you.
Also Called: Red Root, Red Indian Paint, Tetterwort, Blood Root, Indian Paint, Pauson, Red Paint Root, Red Puccoon, Sanguinariat

Blowball	Love and wishes. Carry in a red bag to grant wishes. Blow to the four directions when searching for love.
Blue Cohosh	Empowerment, purification, money drawing, love breaking, and driving away evil.
Blue Violet	Love, inspiration, good fortune, and protection from all evil. Carried for protection and to encourage fortune and changed luck. Mixed with lavender to attract lust and love. Worn to calm tempers and bring sleep.
Also Called: Sweet Scented Violet

Bluebell	Luck, truth and friendship. Incorporate into rituals of death & dying to comfort those left behind and ease their sorrow.
Also Called: Jacinth, Culverkeys, Auld Man's Bell, Ring o' Bells, Wood Bells

Blueberry	Protection. Though not recommended, blueberry is said to cause confusion & strife when tossed in the doorway or path of an enemy.
Boneset	Protection, exorcism and warding off evil spirits. Sprinkle an infusion of boneset around the home to rid it of evil and negativity. To curse an enemy, burn as an incense with a black candle inscribed with the name of the enemy (not recommended -- remember the law of threes!).
Also Called: Feverwort, Agueweed, Crosswort, Eupatorium, Indian Sage, Sweating Plant, Teasel, Thoroughwort, Vegetable Antimony

Borage	Courage and psychic powers. Float the flowers in a ritual bath to raise one's spirits. Carry or burn as an incense to increase courage and strength of character. Sprinkle an infusion of Borage around the house to ward off evil.
Also Called: Bee Bread, Starflower, Herb of Gladness, Bugloss, Burrage, Cool Tankard

Brazil Nut	Good luck in love affairs
Brewer's Yeast	Used in facial mask potions.
Brimstone	Dispels or prevents a hex on you; destroys an enemy's power over you. Burn at midnight near your back door to ward off evil.
Also Called: Sulfur Powder

Broom Tops	Purification, wind spells, divination and protection. Sprinkle an infusion of broom tops around the home to clear away all evil.
Also Called: Irish Broom, Scotch Broom, Besom, Broom

Buchu	Divination, wind spells, psychic powers and prophetic dreams. Add buchu leaves to the bath to enable yourself to foretell the future.
Also Called: Bucco, Agathosma Betulina, Bookoo, Bucku, Buku and Bucco

Buckeye	Divination, good luck, and attracting money & wealth. Carried whole anointed with money oil and/or wrapped in a dollar bill for constant increase in money flow. A popular Hoodoo charm for gamblers. Carry in pocket for protection against arthritis.
Also Called: Horse Chestnut

Buckthorn	Sorceries, elf magick, and driving away enchantments. Used as a luck generator in legal matters and for winning in court. Place the branches of a Buckthorn near doors or windows to drive away evil and bad vibrations. To make a wish, stand in an open area facing east and concentrate on your wish; turn to your left until you are facing east again, continually sprinkling buckthorn bark powder (or an infusion made with buckthorn bark) as you turn.
Also Called: Arrowwood, Black Dogwood, Black Alder Dogwood, Black Alder Tree, Persian Berries

Buckwheat	Money, protection, and fasting. Use in charms and spells to obtain treasure, riches, and wealth.
Burdock	Used for cleansing magic when feeling highly negative about oneself or others. Use in protection incenses and spells. Rinse with a decoction of burdock to remove negative feelings about yourself or others.
Also Called: Bardana, Burr Seed, Clotbur, Cocklebur, Hardock, Hareburr, Hurrburr, Turkey Burrseed, Fox's Clote, Happy Major, Lappa, Love Leaves, Personata, Beggar's Buttons

Burnet	Used for protection, consecration of ritual tools, and counter magick; also used to magickally treat depression and despondency.
Also Called: Italian Pimpernel, Salad Burnet, Greater Burnet

Butchers Broom	Wind spells, divination, protection, psychic powers.
Butterbur	Used for love divination and to raise one's spirits by increasing sense of hope and faith.
Also Called: Bog Rhubarb, Butterdock, Umbrella Plant, Lagwort, Sweet Coltsfoot

Cabbage	Fertility, profit, good luck, lunar magic, money magic.
Cactus	Chastity, banishing and protection. Bury with other banishing symbols for protection. Grow in the home or garden to prevent unwanted intrusions. Place in all directions of the home (north, south, east, and west) for full protection.
Calamint	Soothes sorrows and helps in recovery from emotional pain. Increase joy and restore a bright outlook on life.
Also Called: Basil Thyme, Mountain Balm, Mountain Mint

Calamus	Luck, money, healing, and protection. Place in corners of the kitchen to prevent hunger & poverty. Use to strengthen and bind spells. Note: Use with caution, can be poisonous.
Also Called: Calamus Root, Bach, Vacha

Calendula Flowers	Protection, legal matters, and psychic/spiritual powers. Pick at noon for comfort and strength. Place garlands of calendula at doors to prevent evil from entering. Scatter under the bed for protection and to make dreams come true. Carry to help justice favor you in court. Touch the flowers with bare feet to better understand birds.
Also Called: Marigold, Summer's Bride, Bride of the Sun, Sun's Gold, Ruddes, Ruddles

Camellia	Riches
Camphor	Dreams, psychic awareness, and divination; Adds strength to any mixture; used for purification and to increase personal influence & persuasiveness. Burn on incense or use camphor oil for ritual cleaning when moving into a new home or setting up a new altar. Add to water when scrying.
Also Called: Laurel Camphor, Gum Camphor

Caper	Potency, lust, and love
Caraway	Health, love, protection, mental powers, memory, passion, and anti-theft. Prevents lover from straying when used in love spells & potions. Ideal for consecrating ritual tools. Carry to improve memory or use in dream pillows to help you to remember your dreams. Sew caraway seed into a small white bag with white thread and hide it under the mattress of a child's crib or bed to keep the child free of illness.
Cardamom	Lust, love, and fidelity
Carnation	Protection, strength, healing, enhancing magical powers, and achieving balance. Burn to enhance creativity. Use in bath spells.
Also Called: Gilliflower, Jove's Flower, Nelka, Scaffold Flower, Sops-in-Wine, Gillies

Carob	Health and protection
Carrot	Lust, fertility
Cascara Sagrada	Legal matters, money spells and protection against hexes. Sprinkle an infusion of the herb around the home the night before court proceedings to help in winning a court case. Wear as an amulet for protection against evil and hexes. Wear or keep in a bowl on your altar or reading table to help you concentrate.
Also Called: Cascara Sagada, Sacred Bark, Purshiana Bark, Persian Bark, Chittem Bark, Bearberry

Cashew	Money
Catnip	Sacred to Bast; should be used in any ritual involving cats or cat deities. Use with rose petals in love sachets. Use in sachets and spells designed to enhance beauty or happiness. Provides protection while sleeping. Mix with Dragon's Blood to rid oneself of a behavioral problem or bad habit. Burn dried leaves for love magick. Grow near the home or hang over the door to attract good spirits and luck.
Also Called: Cat's Play, Catmint, Nip, Nepeta, Field Balm, Catswort, Catnep

Cat's Claw	Vision quests, shamanic journeys, and money drawing.
Also Called: Una de Gato

Cat-tail	Lust
Cayenne	Dealing with separations or divorce; Cleansing & purification; Repels negativity; Speeds up the effect of any mixture to which it is added.
Cedar	Confidence, strength, power, money, protection, healing and purification. Used in the consecration of magic wands. Carry a small piece of cedar in wallet or near money to attract wealth. Hang in the home to protect against lightning. Use in sachets to promote calmness.
Cedar Berries	Uses include anti-theft and repelling snakes.
Also Called: Juniper Berries

Celandine	Cures depression, brings victory and joy, assists in legal matters. Serves as a protective ward when worn. Carry to increase self-confidence when facing adversaries. Use in ritual work when you feel trapped in undue negativity. Note: Deadly poison, use with caution.
Also Called: Devil's Milk

Celery	Mental powers, psychic powers, lust, fertility, and male potency.
Celery Seed	Mental and psychic powers, concentration. Burn with orris root to increase psychic powers. Use in sleep pillow to induce sleep. Chew celery seed to aid in concentration.
Centaury	Counter magic herb; snake removing. Adds power to any magical workings. Used to repel anger and hurtful energy.
Also Called: Bitter Herb, Lesser Centaury, Feverwort

Chamomile	Love, healing, and reducing stress. Add to a sachet or spell to increase the chances of its success. Sprinkle an infusion of chamomile around the house to remove hexes, curses and spells. Burn or add to prosperity bags to increase money. Burn as incense for de-stressing, meditation, and restful sleep. Wash hands in an infusion of chamomile for luck before gambling or playing cards. Use in bath magic to attract love. Keep a packet of the herb with lottery tickets for luck.
Also Called: Whig Plant, Scented Mayweed, Camomyle, Ground Apple, Manzanilla (Spanish), Maythen, Earth Apple, Camomile

Cherry	Love, divination, gaiety and happiness
Cherry Bark	Lust, direction, frugality, favors, invisibility, and magical potency. Burn as an incense while performing divination to enhance the results, or while performing love spells to find a partner. Use to revitalize the Magical energy needed to finish an old project.
Also Called: Virginia Prune Bark

Chervil	Brings a sense of the higher self, placing you in touch with your divine, immortal spirit. Helps in making contact with a deceased loved one.
Also Called: French Parsley, Anise Chervil, British Myrrh, Sweet Cicely, Sweet Fern

Chestnut	Love
Chia	Protection and health
Chickweed	Fertility and love. Carry or use to attract a lover or maintain your current relationship. Useful for lunar and animal magic, especially the healing of birds.
Also Called: Starweed, Satin Flower, Starwort, Winterweed, Stitchwort, Tongue Grass, Adder's Mouth, Indian Chickweed, Passerina

Chicory	Frigidity, favors, removing obstacles, and invisibility. Promotes a positive outlook and improves sense of humor. Place fresh flowers on the altar or burn as an incense. Anoint your body with chicory juice or an infusion of chicory to obtain favors from others. Burn as incense with a black skull candle to place a hex on an enemy (not recommended).
Also Called: Blue-Sailors, Coffeeweed, Succory

Chili Pepper	Fidelity, love, and hex breaking. Scatter powder around the house to break hexes and spells against you. Use in love charms & spells.
Also Called: Bird Pepper, Pod Pepper, Cayenne

China Berry	Luck
Chives	Protection and weight loss
Chrysanthemum	Protection. Grow in the garden to ward off evil spirits.
Also Called: Mum

Cilantro	Protection of gardeners; brings peace to the home and helps to attune one with their soul.
Cinnamon	Spirituality, success, healing, protection, power, love, luck, strength, and prosperity. Burn as an incense or use in a sachet to raise spiritual and protective vibrations, draw money, and stimulate psychic powers. A popular herb for use in charms to draw money & prosperity. Wear in an amulet to bring passion.
Also Called: Sweet Wood

Cinquefoil	An all-purpose magical herb. The five points of the leaf represent love, money, health, power, and wisdom. Stimulates memory, eloquence, and self confidence. Carry, burn, or wear to possess these traits. Used for business & house blessing. Use in spells to bring protection to a friend or loved one taking a journey. Burn as an incense during divination to bring dreams of one's intended mate. Frequently associated with ritual work involving romance. Wash hands and forehead with an infusion of this herb nine times to wash away hexes and evil spells against you. Fill an empty egg shell and keep it in the home for powerful protection from evil forces. Wrap in red flannel and hang over the bed to ward off dark spirits of the night.
Also Called: Five Finger Grass, Synkefoyle, Witches Weed, Five Leaf, Tormentilla, Sunkfield, Bloodroot, Moor Grass, Goosegrass, Goose Tansy, Crampweed, Silverweed, Silver Weed, Sunkfield

Citronella	Draws friends to the home, customers to the business. Promotes eloquence, persuasiveness, and prosperity. Protects and cleanses the aura. Encourages self-expression and creativity (great for writers & actors!) and brings clarity to the mind. Repels insects and deodorizes.
Clove	Exorcism, love, money, and protection
Clover	Fidelity, protection, money, love, and success. Strong association with the Earth, useful in consecrating both pentacles and ritual tools made of copper. Carry as an amulet or use in sachets for luck, attracting money, fidelity, maintaining mental acuity, and/or protection. When grown outside, is thought to keep snakes away from property. Sprinkle around the home to remove negative spirits.
Also Called: Trefoil, Cleaver Grass, Marl Grass, Cowgrass, Three Leaved Grass, Honeystalks, Shamrock, Trifoil

Clover, Red	Put in baths to aid in financial arrangements. Also used in potions for lust. Used in sachets or incense for money, love, fidelity, success and luck. Protects and blesses domestic animals. Used in consecration of ritual tools made of copper.
Also Called: Trefoil, Cleaver Grass, Marl Grass, Cowgrass, Three Leaved Grass, Honeystalks, Shamrock, Trifoil

Cloves	Magical uses include protection, banishing hostile/negative forces, and gaining what is sought. Cloves are burned to stop gossip as well as to purify & raise the spiritual vibrations of an area. Use to bring a sense of kinship to a social gathering. Wear for protection and mental clarity. Said to protect babies in their cribs if strung together and hung over the crib (being sure that the strand can't fall into the crib, of course!). Burn to attract riches, drive away hostile forces, and stop any gossip about you. Carry to attract the opposite sex or bring comfort during bereavement. Cleanses the aura.
Also Called: Ding Xiang

Club Moss	Protection and power. Use in bath magic for purification. Burn as incense as an offering to the deities and to open channels of communication with them. Use in amulets and charms for power and protection.
Also Called: Wolf's Claw

Coconut	Chastity, protection, and purification
Coffee	Helps to dispel nightmares and negative thoughts and to overcome internal blockages. Provides peace of mind and grounding.
Coltsfoot	Wealth, prosperity, and love. Use in love sachets. Sacred to Brighid. Use in spells for peace and tranquility.
Also Called: Coughwort, Hallfoot, Horsehoof, Foalswort, Fieldhove, Donnhove

Columbine	Love and courage. Grow in the garden to attract fairies. Use in spells and charms to increase courage in stressful situations.
Also Called: Granny's Bonnet, Culverwort

Comfrey	Magical uses include money, safety during travel, and any Saturnian purpose. Use for workings involving stability, endurance, and matters relating to real estate or property. Put some in your luggage to help prevent loss or theft. Wear for travel safety and protection. Use the root in money spells and incenses.
Also Called: Knitbone, Knit Bone, Ass Ear, Blackwort, Bruisewort, Knitback, Miracle Herb, Boneset, Gum Plant, Slippery Root, Wallwort

Copal Resin	Love, purification. Add to love and purification incenses. Use a piece of copal to represent the heart in poppets.
Coriander	Love, health, immortality, and protection. Tie fresh coriander with a ribbon and hang in the home to bring peace & protection. Add to love charms and spells to bring romance or use in ritual work to ease the pain of a broken love affair. Promotes peace among those who are unable to get along. Throw the seeds in lieu of rice during Handfastings and other rituals of union. Use the seeds in love sachets and spells. Add powdered seeds to wine for an effective lust potion. Wear or carry the seeds to ward off disease and migraines.
Also Called: Cilantro, Chinese Parsley, Yee Sai

Corn	Protection, divination, good luck
Cornflower	Sprinkle over the area where you and your mate argue the most to alleviate discord and strife. A patron herb of herbalists. Use the blue petals to make homemade ink for a Book of Shadows. Use in rituals to give honor to the Mother of all nature.
Also Called: Bachelor Button, Hurtsickle, Bluet, Blue Cap, Bluebottle, Blue Corn Flower

Cotton	Fishing magic, rain, protection, luck, and healing. Burn to attract rain. Cloth made of cotton is the best for magical use. Place cotton in a sugar bowl to draw luck.
Cowslip	Treasure finding, youth, concentration, focus, and house & business blessing. Use in ritual work involving Goddesses associated with love. Carry to increase attractiveness and increase romantic appeal, providing the energy to attract a partner.
Also Called: False Primrose, Keyflower, Fairy Cup, Paigle, Key of Heaven

Coxcomb	Protection
Cramp Bark	Used for protection and female energy.
Also Called: Guelder Rose Parts

Crowfoot	Love. Use in rituals & ceremonies associated with marriage and Handfasting, engagements, and rituals involving commitments and sacred binding vows.
Also Called: Buttercup, Gold Cup, Grenouillette, Meadow Buttercup

Cubeb Berries	Love, lust and adding fire to spells. Use in sachets for love & sex.
Also Called: Tailed Pepper

Cucumber	Chastity, fertility, and healing
Culvers Root	Purification
Also Called: Black Root, Bowman's Root, Brinton Root, Culver's Physic, Physic Root

Cumin	Fidelity, protection, and exorcism. The seed is said to prevent the theft of any object which contains it. Burn with frankincense for protection. Scatter on the floor alone or with salt to drive out evil. Use in love spells to promote fidelity. Steep in wine to make love potions.
Curry	Protection. Burn curry powder to keep evil forces away.
Cyclamen	Fertility, happiness, lust, and protection. Reinforces romance between consensual partners and increases potential of a relationship carrying into the next incarnation.
Also Called: Groundbread, Sowbread, Ivy-Leafed, Swine Bread

Cypress	Associated with death and mourning; stimulates healing and helps overcome the pain of loss. Calmness and tranquility. Hang in the home for protection. Burn crushed cypress wood for aid in understanding grief and death or to aid in divination. Wear or carry at funerals to ease the mind and minimize grief. Useful at any time of crisis.
Also Called: Tree of Death

Daffodil	Love, luck, and fertility. Used to keep negative energy away from the home or altar. Place fresh daffodils in the home to increase fertility. Wear near the heart to bring good luck.
Also Called: Nacissus, Lent Lily, Jonquil, Goose Leek, Lentlilly

Daisy	Love, luck, and innocence. Associated with babies and newborn infants. Incorporate into baby blessings & Wiccanings or to bring protective Magick into a baby's sleeping area. Wear or carry to draw love.
Also Called: Bairnwort, Bruisewort, Eyes, Field Daisy, Maudlinwort, Moon Daisy

Damiana	Lust, sex magic and attracting love. Useful for any love or sex spells. Used by solitary practitioners to open the chakras and increase psychic abilities. It is said that this herb should be stored in a container with a quartz crystal. Highly useful in tantra magic, astral travel, deep meditation, and spirit quests. Note: Internal use of this herb can be toxic to the liver.
Also Called: Love Leaf, Mexican Damiana

Dandelion Leaf	Summoning spirits, healing, purification and defeating negativity. Bury in northwest corner of yard to bring favorable winds. Use in sachets and charms to make wishes come true.
Also Called: Blowball, Cankerwort, Lion's Tooth, Priest's Crown, Puffball, Swine Snout, White Endive, Wild Endive, Piss-a-Bed

Dandelion Root	Magical uses include divination, wishes and calling spirits. Use in dream pillows & sachets for sleep protection. Bury on northwest side of house to draw good luck.
Also Called: Blowball, Cankerwort, Lion's Tooth, Priest's Crown, Puffball, Swine Snout, White Endive, Wild Endive, Piss-a-Bed

Deer's Tongue	Wear, carry, or sprinkle on your bed to attract men and aid in increasing psychic powers.
Devil Bone Root	Cut into small pieces and carry in a red flannel bag to ward off arthritis.
Devil's Bit	Exorcism, love, protection, and lust
Devil's Bone Root	Sexual attractiveness, warding off negative energies
Devil's Claw	Protection and dispelling unwanted company.
Devil's Shoestring	Protection, luck, attracting a new raise or job, giving control over opposite sex, and invisibility. Carry in the pocket while seeking employment, if you are having problems at work, or if you are asking for a raise.
Also Called: Black Haw, Stagbush, American Sloe

Dill	Money, protection, luck and lust. Used in love & protection charms. Effective at keeping away dark forces, useful for house blessing. Keeps the mind cognizant of the line between superstition and the realities of magic. Place seeds in muslin and hang in the shower to attract women. Use dill seeds in money spells. The scent of dill is said to stimulate lust. Add grains of dill seed to a bath before going on a date to make yourself irresistible.
Also Called: Aneto, Aneton, Dill Weed, Dill Seed, Dilly, Garden Dill

Dogwood	Wishes, protection, and good health. Used in meetings in which attendees must maintain confidence on the topics of discussion. Used to guard diaries, journals, and Books of Shadows. Seal letters with dogwood oil to keep the contents for intended eyes only. Use powdered bark or flowers as an incense.
Also Called: Boxwood, Squawbush, Budwood, Flowering Cornel, Green Osier

Dragon's Blood	Protection, energy, and purification. Burn as an incense to increase the potency of a spell. Has strong banishing powers against negative influences and bad habits. A pinch under the mattress is believed to prevent impotency. Used as a form of magical ink. Carry or sprinkle around the home or place of business to drive away negativity. Carry or wear for good luck.
Also Called: Blood, Blume, Calamus Draco, Dragon's Blood Palm

Dulse	Lust, harmony in the home, sea rituals and pacifying sea winds. Throw into ocean or lake to have the sea spirits send peace your way. Likewise, throw from a high place to have the wind spirits send peace. Leave in the home to induce harmony.
Earth Smoke	
Associated with the underworld. Excellent for use at Samhain. Infusion is useful as a wash for consecrating ritual tools. Use in purification ritualswhen moving into a new residence.
Make an infusion, then sprinkle the infusion around the house and rub on the bottom of shoes to bring quick financial gain.
Also Called: Fumitory
Ebony	Protection, power. Use in protection amulets.
Also Called: Obeah Wood

Echinacea	Adds powerful strength to charms, sachets, and herb mixes. Useful for money drawing magic. Dried flowers can be burned as incense. Use on the altar as a offering to the spirits.
Also Called: Purple Coneflower, Coneflower, Black Sampson, Rudbeckia

Elder	Sleep, releasing enchantments, protection against negativity, wisdom, house blessing and business blessing. Elder flowers are useful in dream pillows. Wear to provide protection against evil, negativity, attackers, and the temptation to commit adultery. Used in rites of death & dying to protect the loved one during transport to the Otherworld. Note: Elder leaves, bark, roots, and raw berries are poisonous. Use with caution.
Also Called: Sweet Elder, Tree of Doom, Pipe Tree, Witch's Tree, Old Lady, Devil's Eye

Elecampane	Magically used for banishing and to dispel angry or violent vibrations. Associated with elves. Use in a sachet to attract love or in incense to purify initiates. Strong association with the Elven world and Tarot. Useful for baby blessings. Hide a sachet of elecampane or sprinkle it around doorways to keep out bad vibrations. Ground together with vervain and mistletoe for a powerful love powder.
Also Called: Yellow Starwort, Elfdock, Elfwort, Horse-elder, Horseheal, Scabwort, Elecampagne, Velvet Dock

Elm	Love, protection from lightning. Strong correspondence with the Elven world. To stop slander, bury elm bark in a box with a piece of paper containing the name of the person who is speaking adversely about you.
Also Called: Elven, European Elm, English Elm

Endive	Love spells, sex magic
Epsom Salt	Common ingredient in ritual baths and bath salt recipes.
Eucalyptus	Attracts healing vibrations, great for protection and healing sachets. Use to purify any space. Use dried leaves to stuff healing poppets, pillows, or sachets. Arrange a ring of dried leaves around a blue candle and burn the candle for healing vibrations. Carry in a sachet or amulet to help reconcile difficulties in a relationship, for protection, and/or to maintain health.
Also Called: Blue Gum, Curly Mallee, River Red Gum, Mottlecah, Maiden's Gum, Fever Tree, Stringy Bark Tree

Evening Primrose	Magical uses include love and attracting faeries. Use in ritual baths to increase inner beauty & desirability.
Also Called: Fever Plant, Field Primrose, King's Cureall, Night Willow-herb, Scabish, Scurvish, Tree Primrose, Primrose

Eyebright	Carry this herb to increase psychic ability, improve memory, encourage rationality and increase positive outlook. Carry to bring a humorous and bright outlook when life seems dark and negative.
Also Called: Eye Bright, Euphrasia, Casse-lunette

False Unicorn Root	Magical uses include lusty spells and protection for mother and baby.
Also Called: False Unicorn, Starwort, Helonias Root

Fennel Seed	Imparts strength, vitality, sexual virility; prevents curses, possession and negative problems. Use in spells for protection, healing, and purification. Provides help and strength when facing danger or dire times. Fennel is thought to increase the length of one's incarnation. Hang in windows and doors to ward off evil.
Also Called: Large Fennel, Sweet Fennel, Wild Fennel, Finocchio, Carosella, Florence Fennel, Fennel Seed

Fenugreek	Used for money drawing and fertility magic. Use in floor washes to bring money to the home. Place in a jar and add a few seeds every day to increase money flow to the household.
Also Called: Greek Hay, Foenugreek, Fenigreek, Fenugreek Seed

Fern	Mental clarity, cleansing, purification, and dispelling negativity. Keep in room where studying is done to help concentration. Burn a sprig of fern before an exam. Use in sachets and amulets for powerful auric protection.
Feverfew	Protection against accidents and cold/flu. Use in charms or sachets for love magic or spiritual healing. Keep flowers in suitcase or car when traveling.
Also Called: Featherfew, Rainfarn, Wild Quinine, Featherfoil, Prairie Dock, Missouri Snakeroot, Flirtwort, Parthenium, Febrifuge

Fig	Divination, fertility, and love. Place a branch in front of the door before traveling to ensure a safe return. Write a question on a fig leaf -- if the leaf dries slowly, the answer is yes, otherwise the answer is no.
Also Called: Common Fig

Figwort	Magical balms, house & business blessing, protection for the home. Wear around the neck for health and protection against the evil eye.
Flax Seed	Used for money spells and healing rituals. Mix seeds with red pepper and keep in a box in the home to protect it. Put in a sachet to protect against hostile magic. Place some in shoe or in pocket, wallet, purse, or altar jar with a few coins to ward off poverty. Sprinkle an infusion made with flax seed around the area before divination to get a more accurate reading of someone's future. Burn for divinatory powers.
Also Called: Linseed

Fleabane	Exorcism, protection, chastity.
Foxglove	Protection of home & garden, vision, and immortality. Used to commune with those of the Underworld.
Also Called: Fairy Caps, Deadman's Bells, Fairy's Glove, Fox Claws, Fairy Thimbles, Witch's Bells, Folk's Glove, Witches Glove

Frangipani	Promoting openness in those around you; attracting love, trust, and admiration.
Frankincense Resin	Successful ventures, cleansing, purification. Burn for protective work, consecration, and meditation. Used as an offering at Beltane, Lammas, and Yule. Enhances the power of topaz. Use in rituals and magic associated with self-will, self-control, or the ego. Represents the ability of the divine to move into manifestation. Add to charm bags and sachets to bring success. Mix with Cumin and burn as incense for powerful protection.
Also Called: Frankincense Tears, Olibanum

Fumitory
Associated with the underworld. Excellent for use at Samhain. Infusion is useful as a wash for consecrating ritual tools. Use in purification ritualswhen moving into a new residence.
Make an infusion, then sprinkle the infusion around the house and rub on the bottom of shoes to bring quick financial gain.
Also Called: Earth Smoke
Galangal Root	Magical uses include winning in court, doubling money, hex breaking and sex magic. Burn as incense to remove evil spells and break curses. Carry for protection, to improve psychic abilities and to bring good health. Carry to court to make the judge or jury feel favorably inclined toward you. Wrap money around the root and it will multiply threefold. Burn vigilantly for 14 days before a court case, saving the ashes and bringing them to court in a green flannel bag for luck.
Also Called: Lo John, Low John, Lo John the Conqueror, Lesser Galangal, Galanga, Colic Root, Gargaut, Catarrh Root, India Root, China Root

Gardenia	Promoting peace/repelling strife, protection from outside influences. Carry or wear to attract love or friendship. Burn with other healing herbs to bring peace and comfort to one who is ailing. Use dried flowers in healing incenses and mixtures. Scatter around a room to bring peaceful vibrations.
Garlic	Magical uses include healing, protection, exorcism, repulsion of vampires, and purification of spaces and objects. Used to invoke Hecate. Guards against negative magic, spirits, and the envy of others. Hang in the home to bring togetherness to the family or keep your willpower strong. Said to ward off bad weather when worn or carried during outside activities. Believed to absorb diseases -- rub fresh, peeled garlic against ailing body parts then throw the garlic into running water.
Also Called: Stinkweed

Gentian	Add an infusion to the bath for power and strength.
Geranium	Overcoming negative thoughts & attitudes, lifting spirits, promoting protection & happiness. Repels insects. Balances mind and body.
Ginger	Draws adventure and new experiences. Promotes sensuality, sexuality, personal confidence, prosperity, and success. Adds to the strength and speed of any mixture of which it is a part. Place in amulet, mojo, or medicine bag to promote good health & protection. Use in herbal mixtures for the consecration of athames to strengthen and energize the ritual blade. A ginger root in the form of a human is a very powerful magical token.
Also Called: African Ginger

Ginkgo Biloba	Aphrodisiac, associated with fertility. Carry or use in amulets and charms as a healing herb. Useful in ritual healing. The dried nuts represent male fertility. Useful in all creative work. Immerse in water, then remove and keep in the bedroom to gain grace, love, and beauty.
Also Called: Maidenhair Tree, Living Fossil, Gingko

Ginseng	Magical uses include love, beauty, protection, healing and lust. Carry to draw love, health, money, and sexual potency. Carve a wish into a whole root and throw it into water to make the wish come true.
Also Called: Sang, Wonder of the World Root

Goldenrod	Money, divination
Also Called: Aaron's Rod, Woundwort, Sweet Goldenrod, Solidago, Ver d'or

Goldenseal	Healing rituals, money spells, success. Beneficial in business dealings and matters of finance. Work into any charm or spell to increase its power.
Also Called: Yellow Root, Orange Root, Yellow Puccoon, Ground Raspberry, Eye Balm, Eye Root, Indian Paint, Yellow Paint, Golden Root, Wild Turmeric, Indian Turmeric, Jaundice Root, Yellow Eye, Wamera

Goosegrass	Wisdom, tenacity, luck in love, and pleasant dreams.
Gorse	Associated with love, protection, romance, and weddings. Used to further the romance of a consensual relationship. Protects against negativity and dark magic.
Also Called: Whin, Prickly Broom, Furze

Gotu Kola	Burn prior to (but not during) meditation.
Grape	Fertility, money, mental powers, and garden magic.
Grape Seed	Used for garden magic and fertility.
Grapefruit	Cleansing and purification.
Gravel Root	Used to increase the chances of getting a job. Aids one during times of distress. Useful as an altar offering, especially during love magic. Burn or strew about the house to relieve disharmony in the home or remove tensions. An infusion of the herb rubbed on an erect member is said to improve male potency.
Also Called: Meadow Sweet, Bride of the Meadow, Bridewort, Little Queen, Gravelweed, Joe-Pye Weed, Purple Boneset, Kidney Root, Trumpet Weed, Trumpet Vine, Meadowsweet.

Guinea Peppers	Hexing and cursing
Gum Arabic	Protection, psychic and spiritual enhancement, money, platonic love, and friendship. Use to anoint candles & censers and to consecrate chests or boxes that hold ritual tools. Use in incense to promote a meditative state.
Also Called: Acacia, Arabic Gum

Hawthorn	Magical uses include chastity, fertility, fairy magic, fishing magic, and rebirth. Also used for success in matters related to career, work, and employment. Place around the bedroom or carry to enforce or maintain chastity or celibacy. Sacred to the fairy. Used to decorate maypoles. Used in weddings and handfastings to increase fertility. Wear while fishing to ensure a good catch. Wear or carry to promote happiness and protect against lightning. Keep in a house to repel ghosts and evil spirits. An infusion of the herb used to wash floors will remove negative vibrations.
Also Called: Hawthorne, Haw, May Bush, May Tree, Mayblossom, Mayflower, Quickset, Thorn-apple Tree, Whitethorn, Bread and Cheese Tree, Quick, Gazels, Ladies' Meat

Hay	Pregnancy and fertility.
Heal All	Uses includes all purpose healing and successful gambling.
Heather	Protection, luck, and immortality. Dip in water and sprinkle it around in a circle to bring rain. Carry in sachets or charms to protect against rape and other violent crimes. Hang or use in home decorations to promote peace. Burn with fern to bring rain.
Also Called: Ling, Scotch Heather

Heliotrope	Cheerfulness, gaiety, prosperity, and protection. Use in rituals of Drawing Down the Sun or in magical workings requiring strengthening of the solar aspects of the self. Place under the pillow to induce prophetic dreams. It is said that if you sleep with fresh heliotrope under your pillow, you will dream of the person that has stolen from your home.
Also Called: Turnsole, Cherry Pie

Hemlock	Use to paralyze a situation. Note: Highly poisonous, do not consume.
Henbane	Dried leaves are used in the consecration of ceremonial vessels. Used in love sachets and charms to gain the love of the person desired. Thrown into water to bring rain.
Also Called: Hogs Bean, Devil's Eye, Henbells, Sukran

Henna	Attracts love if worn close to the heart. Wear to ward off the evil eye and provide protection from illnesses. Also great for temporary tattooing and hair coloring.
Hibiscus	Attracting love and lust, divination, and dreams. Carry in a sachet or burn as incense to attract love.
Also Called: Kharkady

Hickory	Legal matters, love, lust, and protection
High John	An "all purpose" herb, the uses of High John include strength, confidence, conquering any situation, obtaining success, winning at gambling, luck, money, love, health, and protection. Useful in all ritual work pertaining to prosperity. Wash hands in an infusion of the herb before playing games of chance.
Also Called: High John the Conqueror, John the Conqueror, Jalap Root

Holly	Marriage, dream magic, luck, and love. Planted around the outside of the home for protection. Used as a decoration at Yule. When carried by men, is thought to heighten masculinity.
Also Called: Tinne, Bat's Wings, Hulm, Hulver Bush, Holm Chaste

Hollyhock	Increase success in the material world, increase flow of money, or acquire new possessions. Grown near the home to help the success of the family flourish.
Honey	For attraction and solar magic.
Honeysuckle	Draws money, success, and quick abundance; Aids persuasiveness and confidence, sharpens intuition. Ring green candles with honeysuckle flowers or use honeysuckle in charms & sachets to attract money. Crush the flowers and rub into the forehead to enhance psychic powers.
Also Called: Woodbine, Jin Yin Hua, Dutch Honeysuckle, Goat's Leaf

Hops	Relaxing and sleep producing; a fantastic herb for dream pillows. Believed to increase the restfulness & serenity of sleep. Also used for healing rituals, sachets, and incense.
Also Called: Beer Flower, Hop Flower

Horehound	Sacred to Horus. Protective; helps with mental clarity during ritual; stimulates creativity/inspiration; balances personal energies. Excellent for use in home blessings. Place near doorways to keep trouble away.
Also Called: White Horehound, Hoarhound, Marrubium, Bugleweed

Horseshoe Chestnut	Magical uses include money and healing.
Also Called: Buckeye

Hyacinth	Promotes peace of mind and peaceful sleep. Attracts love, luck, and good fortune. Named for Hiakinthos, Greek God of homosexual love, this is the patron herb for gay men. Guards against nightmares when used as an oil, burned as incense, or included in dream pillows. Carry in amulet or sachet to ease grief or the pain of childbirth.
Hydrangea	Hex-breaking, love drawing, bringing back a lover, fidelity, and binding.
Hyssop	The most widely used purification herb in magic. Lightens vibrations and promotes spiritual opening; used for cleansing and purification. Said to protect property against burglars and trespassers. Used to consecrate magical tools or items made of tin. The best herb for physical cleansing and washing of temple, ritual tools, or oneself (bath magic). Add to baths & sachets, infuse and sprinkle on objects/people for cleansing or hang in the home to purge it of evil & negativity.
Also Called: Yssop, Ysopo

Indigo Weed	Protection
Also Called: Baptisia

Iris	Attracts wisdom, courage, and faith. Use fresh iris flower to purify an area. Represents a belief in happy reincarnation. Symbolizes faith, wisdom, and valor. Useful for consecrating ritual wands. Used in rituals designed for baby blessings.
Irish Moss	An excellent luck herb. Carry or place under rugs to increase luck and ensure steady flow of money; carry on trips for protection & safety; use to stuff luck or money poppets. Add to luck oil to increase its strength. An excellent gambler's herb. Sprinkle an infusion of the herb around a business to bring in customers.
Iron Weed	Carry in a purple flannel bag for control over others, including boss and co-workers (not recommended - remember the law of threes).
Ivy	Protection, healing, fertility, and love. Hang an ivy plant in front of the home to repel negative influence and discourage unwanted guests. Mix in a sachet with Holly as a wedding gift to provide protection to the newly married couple. Place ground ivy around the base of a yellow candle on a Tuesday, then burn the candle to discover who (if anyone) is working negative magic against you.
Jamaican Ginger	Gambling luck
Jasmine	Uses include snakebite and divination; good for charging quartz crystals. Use in sachets and spells to draw spiritual love and attract a soul mate. Carry or burn the flowers to draw wealth and money. Use in dream pillows to induce sleep or burn in the bedroom to bring prophetic dreams. Helps to promote new, innovative ideas.
Also Called: Pikake, Ysmyn, Jessamin, Moonlight on the Grove

Jezebel Root	Used for spells and castings for money and achievement. Also used to place curses and hexes.
Job's Tears	Luck in finding employment, wishes, and blessing. Used in counts of 3 or 7 in charm and mojo bags to attract luck, wishes and money. Carrying three will assist in finding a good job. Count out seven seeds while concentrating on a wish, then carry the seeds with you at all times for seven days -- the wish should come true by the end of the week.
Juniper	Banishes all things injurious to good health; attracts good, healthy energies and love. Juniper berries can be carried by males to increase potency. Use a string of juniper berries to attract love. Burn for magical protection. Place a sprig of juniper near the door to a home or with valuables to help safeguard against theft (but keeping locking the doors, too!). Use juniper oil in magical workings to increase money and prosperity.
Also Called: Juniper Berries, Ginepro, Enebro, Wachholder

Kava Kava	Uses include aphrodisiac; potent sacramental drink; potions; induces visions; astral work; travel protection. Carry for success and job promotion.
Also Called: Ava, Ava Pepper, Intoxicating Pepper

Knotweed	Binding spells, health, and cursing
Kola Nut	Peace, removing depression, and calming
Lady Slipper	Used for protection against hexes, curses and the evil eye.
Lady's Mantle	Aphrodisiac, transmutation. Use in love potions or to increase the power of any magical workings.
Also Called: Nine Hooks, Dewcup, Lion's Foot, Bear's Foot, Stellaria

Larch	Protection and anti-theft
Larkspur	Health and protection
Laurel	Love and protection. Worn by brides to guarantee a long and happy marriage.
Lavender	Magical uses include love, protection, healing, sleep, purification, and peace. Promotes healing from depression. Great in sleep pillows and bath spells. Believed to preserve chastity when mixed with rosemary. Burn the flowers to induce sleep and rest, then scatter the ashes around the home to bring peace and harmony. Use in love spells and sachets, especially those to attract men.
Also Called: Spike, Nardus, Elf Leaf, Nard

Leek	Love, protection, exorcism, and strengthening existing love.
Lemon	Cleansing, spiritual opening, purification, and removal of blockages. Add lemon peel to love sachets and mixtures. Soak peel in water and use the mixture as a wash for magickal objects to remove unwanted negativity, especially for objects received second-hand. Use an infusion of lemon to induce lust.
Also Called: Citronnier, Neemoo, Leemoo, Limone, Limoun

Lemon Balm	Love, success, healing, and psychic/spiritual development. Use in love charms & spells to attract a partner. Use in healing spells & rituals for those suffering from mental or nervous disorders.
Also Called: Melissa, Sweet Balm, Balm Mint, Bee Balm, Blue Balm, Cure-all, Dropsy Plant, Garden Balm, Sweet Balm

Lemon Grass	Psychic cleansing and opening, lust potions.
Lemon Verbena	Worn to increase attractiveness or to bed to prevent dreams. Added to other herbal mixtures and charms to increase their effectiveness. Used in purification baths. Carried in an amulet to attract the opposite sex.
Lettuce	Divination, lunar magic, sleep, protection, love spells, and male sex magic.
Licorice	Love, lust, and fidelity. Carry to attract a lover.
Also Called: Licorice Root, Yashtimadhu, Mithilakdi, Mulathi, Liquorice, Sweet Root, Lacris, Lacrisse, Lycorys, Reglisse

Lilac	Wisdom, memory, good luck and spiritual aid.
Also Called: Common Lilac

Lily	Fertility, renewal, rebirth, marriage, happiness, and prosperity.
Also Called: Easter Lily, Tiger Lily

Lily of the Valley	Soothing, calming, draws peace and tranquility, and repels negativity. Assists in empowering happiness and mental powers. Use in magical workings to stop harassment. Married couples should plant Lily of the Valley in their first garden to promote longevity of the marriage. Note: Poisonous, use with caution.
Also Called: Jacob's Ladder, Male Lily, Our Lady's Tears, Ladder-to-Heaven, May Lily, Constancy

Lime	Purification and protection, promoting calmness and tranquility, and strengthening love.
Linden Flowers	Used in love spells/mixtures and protection spells & incenses. Mix equal parts Linden and Lavender flowers and place in a sachet under your pillowcase to relieve insomnia. Keep Linden on a table to release the energies needed to keep the spirit alive and healthy.
Also Called: Lime Blossoms, Linden Flowers, Tilia

Little John	Place in holy water to bring good luck in everything you attempt.
Lo John	Money, success, and luck
Lobelia	Used for attracting love and preventing storms.
Also Called: Pukeweed, Indian Tobacco, Bladderpod, Wild Tobacco, Emetic Herb, Emetic Weed, Asthma Weed, Rag Root, Vomit Wort

Lotus	Love, protection, psychic opening, and spiritual growth. Sacred to Egyptian gods, Indian gods, Hermes, Oshun, and Osiris.
Lotus Root	Carry to keep thoughts pleasant and clear. Mark one side 'Yes' and the other 'No', then toss the root into the air as you make a wish to find out if the wish will come true.
Lovage	Prophetic dreams, energy, and purification. Use in bath spells for psychic cleansing. Use in sachets, amulets, or bath magic to enhance attractiveness and make yourself more love-inspiring. Add an infusion of lovage to the bath immediately prior to attending court to help bring victory.
Lucky Hand Root	Magical uses include bringing good luck, protecting owner from all harm, travel safety, and gaining employment. Great for use in mojo & charm bags. Carry for general success and to obtain & maintain employment.
Also Called: Orchid Root

Lungwort	Air magic, offering to the Gods of air, blessing while traveling by air
Mace	Promotes concentration, focus, and self discipline; great for study and meditation. Used in reuniting rituals.
Also Called: Macis, Muscadier

Magnolia Flowers	Magical uses include health, beauty, love, loyalty, peace, calming anxieties, marital harmony, and overcoming addictions & obsessive behavior.
Magnolia Bark	Magical uses include fidelity, love and hair growth.
Also Called: Cucumber Tree, Blue Magnolia, Swamp Sassafras, Magnolia Tripetata

Maidenhair Fern	Brings beauty and love into your life.
Mandrake	Magical uses include protection, prosperity, fertility, and exorcising evil. Carry to attract love. Wear to preserve health.
Also Called: Mandragora, Satan's Apple, Manroot, Circeium, Gallows, Herb of Circe, Mandragor, Raccoon Berry, Ladykins, Womandrake, Sorceror's Root, Wild Lemon

Maple	Love, money, wealth, longevity, and good luck
Maple Syrup	Longevity, money, and love
Marigold	Attracts respect and admiration, provides good luck in court and other legal matters. Great for bath spells -- add an infusion of marigold to the bath for 5 days to find "Mr. Right". Add to sachets, amulets, and incense to attract new love or add life to your current relationship. Place above the bed or in dream pillows for prophetic dreams. Scatter under the bed for protection while sleeping.
Also Called: Bride of the Sun, Ruddes, Marygold

Marjoram	Cleansing, purification, and dispelling negativity. Place under pillow to bring revealing dreams. Place in the corners of the home for protection. Use in love spells or place in food to strengthen love. Carry for protection or place in money mixtures and sachets to draw wealth. Put a pinch in the corner of each room in the house each month to attract a husband. Use an infusion in the bath for 7 days to aid in resolving sadness or grief.
Also Called: Joy of the Mountain, Mountain Mint

Marshmallow Root	Protection and psychic powers. Burn as an incense for protection and psychic stimulation. Place on the altar during ritual to draw in good spirits.
Also Called: Althea, Sweet Weed, Mallards, Guimauve, Mortification Plant, Schloss Tea, Wymote

May Flowers	Attract adventure and chaos to your life
Meadowsweet	Used to increase the chances of getting a job. Aids one during times of distress. Useful as an altar offering, especially during love magic. Burn or strew about the house to relieve disharmony in the home or remove tensions. Carry to gain popularity and friendship.
Also Called: Gravel Root, Bride of the Meadow, Bridewort, Little Queen, Gravelweed, Joe-Pye Weed, Purple Boneset, Kidney Root, Trumpet Weed, Trumpet Vine, Meadowsweet

Mesquite	Healing. Use in healing incenses and mixtures. Use to fuel ritual fires or burn as an incense for cleansing & purification. Use an infusion of mesquite in the bath for purification.
Milk Thistle	
Magical uses include strength, perseverance, wisdom, aid in decision making. It is also thought to enrage snakes, causing them to fight against one another.

Mimosa	Protection, purification, love, dream magic. Use in sleep pillows to draw prophetic dreams. Use in bath magic to break hexes and prevent future problems. Scatter around an area for purification.
Mint	Promotes energy, communication and vitality. Draws customers to a business. Use dried leaves to stuff a green poppet for healing. Place in wallet or purse or rub on money to bring wealth and prosperity. Use on the altar to draw good spirits to assist in your magic. Place in the home for protection.
Also Called: Garden Mint

Mistletoe	Used for fertility, creativity, prevention of illness/misfortune, and protection from negative spells & magic. Hang in the home for protection from lightning & fire. Wear in an amulet to repel negativity & ill will and protect against unwanted advances. Carry for luck in hunting. Use to draw in customers, money and business. Use in ritual baths or prayer bowls for healing. Note: Poisonous, use with caution.
Also Called: Birdlime, Devil's Fuge, Golden Bough, Holy Wood, Misseltoe, Druid's Bough, Witch's Broom, Thunderbesom, Wood of the Cross

Monkshood	Magical uses include invisibility and protection from evil. Use only the flowers in magic, as the roots give off fumes when drying. Excellent for redirecting predators who come after you. Note: Poisonous, use with caution and do not consume.
Also Called: Aconite, Garden Wolf's Bane, Helmet Flower, Friar's Cap, Soldier's Cap, Wolfbane

Morning Glory	Used for binding, banishing, and promoting attraction to someone or something. Wrap the vine around a poppet nine times to banish someone. Remember the law of three -- use of negative magic is not recommended. Note: Poisonous, use with caution.
Also Called: Devil's Guts

Motherwort	Magical uses include bolstering ego, building confidence, success and counter magic. Keep in a jar by family pictures to keep the family safe.
Also Called: Lion's Tail, Lion's Ear, Throwwort, Roman Motherwort

Mugwort	Carried to increase lust & fertility, prevent backache and cure disease & madness. Place around divination and scrying tools to increase their power or near the bed to enable astral travel. Use in sleep pillow or place in a sachet under your pillowcase to bring about prophetic dreams. Use an infusion of mugwort to clean crystal balls and magic mirrors.
Also Called: Artemisia, Felon Herb, St. John's Plant, Naughty Man, Oild Man, Sailor's Tobacco

Mullein	Protection from nightmares & sorcery, courage, cursing, and invoking spirits. Place beneath pillow or use in dream pillow to guard against nightmares. Carry to instill courage and help attract love from the opposite sex. Use in place of graveyard dust in spells. Wear to keep wild animals at bay in unfamiliar areas. Burn to banish bad influences and bring an immediate halt to bad habits.
Also Called: Flannel Flower, Shepherd's Club, Hare's Beard, Pig Taper, Cow's Lungwort, Aarons Rod, Velvet Plant, Verbascum Flowers, Woolen Blanket Herb, Bullock's Lungwort, Hag's Tapers

Musk	Encourages self-esteem and desirability. Can assist in transmuting sexual love into spiritual connection. Stimulates the root chakra.
Mustard Seed	Courage, faith, and endurance. Frequently used in voudoun charms. Carry a few grains in a small bag to guard against injury. Sprinkle red mustard seed around the house to ward off burglars. Use yellow mustard seed in an amulet to bring faith followed by success -- this is one of the oldest known good luck amulets.
Also Called: Yellow Mustard, White Mustard

Myrrh	Spiritual opening, meditation, and healing. This herb has high psychic vibrations that will enhance any magical working. Burn as a potent incense to bring peace and for consecration, and blessing of talismans, charms, and magical tools. Increases the power of any incense of which it is a part. Usually burned with Frankincense.
Also Called: Molmol, Mirra, Didthin, Bowl

Myrtle	Love, fertility, youth, peace, and money. Carry myrtle leaves to attract love, burn as an incense to bring beauty. Wear myrtle while preparing love spells/mixes to increase their intent. Wear or carry to attract true friendship. Use in sachets to ensure a peaceful and loving atmosphere.
Also Called: Bayberry Tree

Narcissus	Calms vibrations and promotes harmony, tranquility, and peace of mind.
Also Called: Asphodel, Daffy Down Lily, Fleur de Coucou, Goose Leek, Lent Lily, Porillon

Neroli	Joy, happiness, confidence, and overcoming emotional blockages. Soothes, relaxes, and uplifts the spirit. Instills confidence and courage when carried or worn.
Nettle	Magical uses include dispelling darkness & fear, strengthening the will, and aiding in the ability to handle emergencies. Sprinkle in the home to drive off evil & negativity. Carry in a sachet or use with a poppet to turn back a spell on the one who cast it. Sprinkle on self to remove petty jealousies, gossip, envy, and uncomfortable situations.
Also Called: Nettle Leaves, Common Nettle, Stinging Nettle, Beggar's Lice

Nutmeg	Magical uses include attracting money/prosperity, bringing luck, protection, and breaking hexes. Include in money magic and sachets. Carry as a good luck charm and/or to increase the intellect. Sprinkle nutmeg powder on green candles for prosperity.
Also Called: Myristica

Oak	The most sacred of all trees, its wood is often used in the making of magical tools. Burn the leaves for purification. Use in fertility amulets. Hang a sprig in the home to ward of negativity and strengthen family unity. Carry for wisdom and strength, for luck, to preserve youthfulness, and/or to increase attractiveness.
Also Called: Duir, Jove's Nuts

Oak Moss	Magical uses include luck, money, protection and strength.
Oatmeal	To invoke or worship Brighid.
Oatstraw	Keep a small amount in wallet or purse to draw in money and prosperity.
Olive	Fidelity, marriage, peace, money. Assures fidelity in love and is used to attract a marriage partner. Inspires fruitfulness and security in love, family, and business.
Olive Leaf	Magical uses include peace, potency, fertility, healing, protection and lust.
Onion	Prosperity, stability, endurance, and protection. Burn onion flowers to banish bad habits and negative influences. Cut onions in half and place in the corners of a room to absorb illness, then bury or burn the onion halves in the morning. Sacred to the moon.
Orange	Attracts abundance and happiness through love and marriage. Concentrate on a yes/no question while eating an orange, then count the seeds -- an even number of seeds means the answer is no, an odd number of seeds means yes. Use the leaves and flowers in love rituals to bring on a marriage proposal. Add an infusion of orange to the bath to increase attractiveness and beauty.
Orange Bergamot	Money drawing. Put leaves in wallet or purse to attract money. Rub fresh leaves on money before it is spent to ensure its return.
Also Called: Bergamot, Orange Mint

Orange Blossoms	Attracts prosperity and stability; brings harmony, peace, emotional openness, and love. Use in herbal baths for attractiveness.
Orange Peel	Magical uses include love, divination, luck, money and house & business blessing. Add to love sachets to help someone make up their mind. Use in sachets & amulets to bring luck to business negotiations.
Orchid
Concentration, strengthening memory, focus, and will power.
Oregano	Joy, strength, vitality, and added energy
Orris Root Cut	Promotes popularity, persuasiveness, and personal success. Aids communication and helps to open dialogs. Used to draw (or hold) love and romance. Add to the bath for personal protection.
Also Called: Florentine Iris, Queen Elizabeth Root

Orris Root Powder	Used to bring love, romance, companionship and a loving mate. Called 'Love Drawing Powder' in voodoo/hoodoo. Add to sachets and sprinkle on sheets and around the house to draw or hold love. Place a pinch in the corners of the room to open a new love. Use in bath magic to attract the opposite sex.
Also Called: Love Drawing Powder, Florentine Iris, Queen Elizabeth Root

Osha Root	Protection against evil spirits
Palm	Fertility, focus, potency, and divination
Palo Santo	If you feel you have been cursed, rub this herb on your body and then bathe.
Pansy	Love, divination related to love & relationships, rain magic
Papaya	Hang twigs of papaya wood over a door to keep out evil. Eat papaya with a loved one to intensify your love. Mix papaya leaves with mandrake and burn or use in the bath to reverse hexes and jinxes.
Paprika	Use to add energy to any spell or mixture. Throw in someone's yard to cause them problems.
Also Called: African Pepper, Bird Pepper, Chili Pepper, Goat's Pod, Grains of Paradise, Red Pepper, Sweet Pepper, Tabasco Pepper, Zanzibar Pepper, Capsicum

Papyrus	Protection
Parsley	Calms and protects the home; Draws prosperity, financial increase, and luck. Restores a sense of well-being. Use in spells to increase strength & vitality after surgery or illness. Use in amulets or other magical workings to help yourself out of a rut. Eat to provoke lust and promote fertility. Place on plates of food to guard against contamination. Useful for bath magic to purify and end misfortune. Mix with jasmine and carry in your shoe to make you more attractive to the opposite sex.
Parsnip	Male sex magic
Passion Flower	Magical uses include attracting friendship and prosperity and heightening libido. Carried to bring great popularity & attract new friends. Placed in house to calm trouble & arguments and bring peace. Used as a wash to diminish disagreements & stress. Placed beneath pillow to promote sleep. Bathe in an infusion of passion flower for 5 days to attract the opposite sex.
Also Called: Passion Vine, Granadilla, Maracoc, Maypops, Purple Passion Flower, Grandilla

Patchouli	Used in spells, sachets, baths and mixtures for money & love. Put in the wallet or purse to draw money. Place in a charm or use in incense for fertility. Helps to ground you and bring your consciousness back to the physical level. Burn to bring business growth.
Also Called: Patchouly, Pucha Pot

Pau d'Arco	Magical use is for the ritual healing of severe diseases.
Also Called: Lapacho, Taheebo, Pau Darco

Peach	Fertility, love, and wisdom. Eating peaches induces love. Wear a peach pit to keep away evil. Carry peach wood for longevity. Use peach pits or dried fruit in amulets and sachets for fertility and love.
Pear	Lust and love Eating pears induces love. Use dried fruit in amulets and sachets for love and lust.
Pearl Moss	Sprinkle across the doorway of a home to allow only good spirits to enter.
Peas	Money and love
Peat Moss	Protection
Pecan	Associated with employment, success, job security, and career matters. To insure that you do not lose your job, shell a small amount of pecans. While eating them, slowly visualize yourself working and enjoying your job. Take the shells to work and place them where they won't be found or removed.
Pennyroyal	Magical uses include peace and tranquility. Carried to avoid seasickness or for physical strength & endurance. Worn to bring success to business. Use to rid the home of negative thoughts against you. Carry when dealing with negative vibrations of any kind. Place on a candle before or during uncomfortable meetings.
Also Called: Tickweed, Squaw Mint, Stinking Balm, Thickweed, Mosquito Plant, Squaw Balm, Lurk in the Ditch, Run by the Ground

Peony	Protection from hexes and jinxes. Good luck, good fortune, prosperity, and business success. Hang in the home or car for protection. Used to attract faeries. Use in rituals to cure or reduce lunacy. Warning: While the flowers & petals have the positive qualities listed, the seed is called 'Jumby Bean' and is known for promoting dissension and strife.
Pepper, Black	Courage, banishing negative vibrations. Burn to rid home or office of bad vibrations. Carry to ward off petty jealousy against you or aid in providing courage to face difficult situations.
Also Called: Piper

Peppermint	Use to increase the vibrations of a space or in spells and incense for healing & purification. Place in sleep pillow to ensure peaceful sleep and bring about prophetic dreams. Use to anoint furnishings and household objects. Burn in a new home to clear out sickness and negative energy. Use in magical workings to provide the push needed to bring change to one's life. Carry with other herbs to boost love & abundance wishes.
Also Called: Brandy Mint, Lammint

Periwinkle	Love within marriage, mental powers, and money. Carry to obtain grace, attract money, and protect against snakes and poison. Use in magical workings to restore lost memory. Burn with love incense before having sex with your husband or wife. Note: Can be poisonous, use with caution.
Also Called: Sorceror's Violet

Persimmon	Changing sex, healing, and luck
Pettitgrain	Protection
Pikaki	Draws comfort, prosperity success, and well-being
Pimento	Love
Pimpernel	Protection and health
Pine	Promotes clean breaks, new beginnings, prosperity, success, strength, grounding, and growth; Also used for cleansing, purification, and repelling negativity. Great for house and business blessing.
Pineapple	Luck, money, and chastity. Add an infusion of pineapple to the bath to attract luck.
Pink Root	Healing
Also Called: Indian Pink, Maryland Pink, Wormgrass, Wormroot, Starbloom

Pink Rose Buds	Divine, emotional, and thinking love; start with these to build a long lasting relationship.
Pistachio	Breaking love spells
Plantain	Protection from evil spirits and snake bites, removing weariness, healing headaches; house & business blessing. Place a pinch of dried leaves in the flame of a candle or throw into an East wind for healing. Hang plantain leaves in the car for protection from evil and jealousy.
Pleurisy Root	Healing
Also Called: Butterfly Weed, Wind Root, Canada Root, Silkweed, Orange Swallow Wort, Tuber Root, White Root, Flux Root, Asclepias

Plum	Healing, peace, and love
Plumeria	Promotes persuasiveness, eloquence, and success in dealing with people; Attracts the notice of others.
Also Called: Graveyard Flowers, Melta, Temple Tree

Poke Root	Magical uses include finding lost objects and breaking hexes and curses. Carry to increase courage. Add an infusion of poke root to bath water to break hexes.
Also Called: Phytolacca, Shang Lu

Pomegranate	Divination, wishes, wealth and fertility
Poppy	Fertility, prosperity, love and abundance.
Also Called: Opium Poppy, Mawseed

Poppy seeds	Pleasure, heightened awareness, love, luck, invisibility. A popular ingredient in food magic. Sleep on a pillow stuffed with poppy seeds to bring relief from insomnia.
Also Called: Opium Poppy, Mawseed

Potato	Image magic, money, luck, and healing
Prickly Ash Bark	Magical uses include safe travel, fertility, removing spells and breaking hexes.
Also Called: Toothache Tree, Yellow Wood, Suterberry

Primrose	Promotes the disclosure of secrets, resolution of mysteries, and revelation of truth; Breaks down dishonesty and secrecy. Put an infusion in a child's bath water or the dried herb in their pillows to get them to behave.
Also Called: English Cowslip, Butter Rose, Password

Pumpkin	Lunar magic
Pumpkin Seed	Health
Quassia	Love. Mix with a snippet of hair from yourself and your lover (with his/her permission, of course!) with quassia chips, burn, and keep the ashes in a small bottle to preserve the love.
Quince	Love, happiness, luck, and protection from evil. Carry quince seeds in a red flannel bag to protect against physical attacks and harm. Use quince seeds in charms and spells pertaining to love, protection, and happiness.
Radish	Protection and lust
Ragwort	Courage. Used in charms to ward off evil spirits. Associated with faeries.
Also Called: Fairie's Horse, Faerie's Horse, Fairy Horse, Faery Horse

Raspberry Leaf	Used for healing, protection, love. Raspberry leaves are carried (NOT EATEN) by pregnant women to reduce the pain involved in pregnancy & childbirth. Bathe in an infusion of raspberry to keep your current love relationship alive.
Red Clover	Magical uses include fidelity, love, money, protection, and the blessing of domestic animals. Carry to aid in financial arrangements. Sprinkle around the home to remove negative spirits.
Also Called: Cleaver Grass, Marl Grass, Cow Grass, Trefoil, Purple Clover, Wild Clover

Red Willow Bark	Magical uses include meditation and clearing. A fabulous incense wood with a sweet and dry aroma.
Rhubarb	Fidelity and protection
Rice	Rain, fertility, money, and protection. Use in money spells and fertility charms.
Rose	Magical uses include divine love, close friendships, domestic peace/happiness, and lasting relationships. Great for use in incense, potpourri or bath magic. Place around sprains and dark bruises to help them heal faster.
Rose Geranium	Averts negativity, especially in the form of gossip or false accusations.
Rose Hips	Used in healing spells and mixtures, brings good luck, calls in good spirits.
Rosemary	Carried and used in healing poppets for good health, used in love/lust spells, worn to improve memory, used in dream pillows to prevent nightmares, burned as incense for purification and removing negativity. Wear or carry while reading or completing tasks to improve memory of the material and aid clear thinking (great for students!). Use an infusion of rosemary to wash hands before any healing magic. Use in bath magic for purification. Associated with faeries.
Also Called: Elf Leaf, Sea Dew, Polar Plant, Guardrobe, Compass Weed, Dew of the Sea, Mary's Cloak, Stella Maria, Star of the Sea, Incensier

Rowan	Protection, magical power, success, anti-haunting. Use leaves and berries in amulets for healing and promoting psychic powers. Also good for use in luck spells and mixtures. Rowan wood is often used to make wands and divining rods.
Also Called: Moutain Ash, Delight of the Eye, Quickbane, Ran Tree, Rowanberry, Thor's Helper, Witch Bark, Wicken Tree, Wild Ash, Witchwood

Rue	
Magical uses include healing, health, mental powers, freedom and protection against the evil eye. Use as an asperger to cast salt water for purification of the circle or removing negativity from the home. Hang the dried herb indoors to help yourself see and understand your mistakes. Burn to banish negativity or bad habits. Add to incenses and poppets to prevent illness or speed recovery. Add to baths to break hexes and curses that may have been placed against you.
[Warning - Rue should not be handled by women who are pregnant.]
Also Called: Herb-of-Grace, Herb of Grace, Herbygrass, Garden Rue, Mother of Herbs, Rewe, Goat's Rue

Rye	Love, fidelity, and self-control
Safflower	Mix with jinx incense to cause destruction to an enemy (not recommended!). Rub on the inside of the knees to attract exciting sexual encounters.
Saffron	Aphrodisiac, love, healing, happiness, wind raising, lust and strength. Burn, wear, or carry for healing and strengthening psychic awareness. Commonly used in love magic, healing spells, and to control the weather. Wash hands with water and saffron or keep saffron sachets in your home to bring happiness.
Also Called: Kum Kuma, Zaffran, Kesar, Autumn Crocus, Spanish Saffron, Dyer's Saffron, Thistle Saffron, Bastard Saffron, American Saffron, Parrot's Corn

Sage	Used for self purification and dealing with grief and loss. Carried to improve mental ability and bring wisdom. Used in healing sachets & incense. Promotes spiritual, mental, emotional & physical health and longevity. Removes negative energy. Place near a personal object of a person who is ailing when performing healing spells or rituals. Write a wish on a sage leaf and place it under your pillow for 3 nights -- if you dream of your wish, it will come true; if not, bury the leaf in the ground so that no bad will come to you.
Also Called: Garden Sage, White Sage, Red Sage, Sawge

Salt Petre	For women who do not want their partners to have outside relationships. Stops sexual tension.
Also Called: Salt Peter, Petre Salt, Saltpetre, Saltpeter

Sandalwood	Scatter sandalwood powder around the home to clear it of negativity. Burn during protection, healing, and exorcism spells. Use the wood for healing wands. Write your wish on a chip of sandalwood and burn it in the censer or cauldron while visualizing your wish to make it come true. Helps in healing by aligning the chakras for better energy flow. Good for meditation, healing, and manifestation. Facilitates concentration.
Also Called: Sandal, Santal, White Saunders, White Sandalwood, Red Sandalwood, Yellow Sandalwood

Sanicle	Used for safety in travel.
Also Called: Sancile, American Sanicle, Black Snakeroot, Wood Sanicle, Pool Root, Butterwort, Alum Root

Sarsaparilla	Sexual vitality, health, love and money. Mix with sandalwood and cinnamon and sprinkle around home or business to draw money. Alleged to prolong life, hinder premature aging, excite passions, and improve virility when worn or carried.
Also Called: Black Creeper, Sariva, Kalisar, Dudhilata, Sugandhi, Red Sarsaparilla, Tu Fu Ling, Dwipautra

Sassafras	Magical uses include health, money and overcoming addictions. Placed in wallet or purse to attract money and make the money you have go farther. Used as a prosperity incense. Added to sachets for healing.
Also Called: Ague Tree, Cinnamon Wood, Saxifrax, Saloip

Savoury	Sensuality, sexuality, and passion; great for sex magic!
Saw Palmetto Berries	Magical uses include healing protection, exorcism, passion and spiritual openings.
Also Called: Dwarf Palm Tree, Cabbage Palm, Sabal, Sabal Serrulata

Scullcap	Worn by women to keep their husbands faithful. Used in sleep pillows for relaxation & peace. Used to bind oaths and consecrate vows & commitments (handfasting, initiations, etc.). Used in bath magic to clam the aura of tensions and stress. Burned for relief of disharmony and disruptive situations. Place a pinch in a lover's shoes to keep then from being affected by charms of others.
Also Called: Skullcap, Scullcap, Hoodwort, Quaker Bonnet, Helmet Flower, European Skullcap, Greater Skullcap, American Skullcap, Blue Skullcap, Blue Pimpernel, Hoodwart, Hooded Willow Herb, Side-Flowering Skullcap, Mad Dogweed, Mad Weed, Madweed, Helmet Flower, Hoodwort

Sea Salt	Uses include cleansing crystals, purification, grounding, protection magic and ritual. Used on the altar to represent the Earth. Used with water for asperging, sea spells, consecration and casting circles. Used with garlic and rosemary to banish evil.
Senna	Magical uses include all matters of lust and love. Enhances tact & diplomacy. Bathe with your mate in an infusion of senna to ensure faithfulness.
Also Called: Senna Pod, Rajavriksha, Fan Xia Ye, American Senna, Locust Plant, Wild Senna, Fan Xie Ye

Sesame	Money, lust, and passion
Shallots	Add an infusion of shallots to the bath for luck.
Shave Grass	Magical uses include snake charming & fertility. Place in the bedroom to increase fertility.
Also Called: Scouring Rush, Equisetum, Pewterwort, Corncob Plant, Bottle Brush, Horsetail, Dutch Raisins, Paddock Pipe

Sheep Sorrel	Carry to protect against heart disease. Place in sickrooms to aid in recuperation from illnesses and wounds.
Shepherd's Purse	Healing
Also Called: Mother's Heart, Shepard's Purse/Heart, Cocowort, Pickpocket, Toywort, Pick Purse, St. James' Weed, St. James' Wort, St. Anthony's Fire, Pepper Grass, Case Wort, Permacety

Skunk Cabbage	Legal matters
Slippery Elm	Magical uses include protection and halting gossip. Tie a knotted yellow thread around slippery elm and throw it into a fire to cease all gossip about you.
Also Called: Red Elm, Moose Elm, Sweet Elm, Indian Elm

Snapdragon	Protection, exorcism, and purification
Snowdrop	Passing of sorrow
Solomon's Seal Root	Magically used for protection and cleansing. Used in offertory incense. Used to bind magical workings and keep sacred oaths & promises forever binding. Carry in an amulet or sachet for all-purpose protection. Use in protection magic to exorcise spirits and ward off negative influences and demons. Keep on altar to promote success in all rituals. Sprinkle an infusion of the root to drive away evil.
Also Called: Lady's Seals, St. Mary's Seal, Sigillum Sanctae Mariae, Scean de Solomon

Sow Thistle	Increases strength & stamina, repels witches, and provides invisibility from enemies.
Spanish Moss	Protection, opening blockages, and dispelling negativity
Spearmint	Healing, love and protection while sleeping. Burn for healing magic, especially of respiratory conditions. Carry for healing. Use in ritual baths for strength and vitality. Write a wish on paper and wrap it in spearmint leaves; place in a red cloth and sew with red thread, then keep in a safe and secret place -- by the time the scent is gone, your wish should have come true.
Also Called: Garden Mint, Mackerel Mint, Our Lady's Mint, Green Mint, Spire Mint, Lamb Mint, Yerba Buena, Sage of Bethlehem, Fish Mint

Spiderwort	Love
Spikenard	Wear in a sachet around the neck to bring luck & ward off illness. It is said that wetting a picture of a loved one in an infusion of spikenard will keep them close to you.
Also Called: Spignet, Life of Man, Pettymorell, Old Man's Root, Indian Root, Bitter Root, Nard, Nardo

Squaw Vine	Magical uses include all matters of fertility & childbirth. Pregnant women can add an infusion of squaw vine to bath water once a week to protect the unborn child from jealousy.
Also Called: Squawvine

Squill Root	To draw money, place in a container with a dime, a quarter and a dollar and say a prayer for prosperity.
St. John's Wort	Worn to prevent colds & fevers. Placed under pillow to induce prophetic, romantic dreams. Protects against all forms of black witchcraft. Place in a jar in a window or burn in a fireplace to protect from lightning, fire and evil spirits. Used for banishing, protection & blessing. Carry to strengthen courage and convictions or when confronting nasty situations. Burn to banish spirits and demons. Used in divination for the care of crystals. Note: Can be poisonous, use with caution.
Also Called: Saint John's Wort, Goat Weed, Herba John, Kalimath Weed, Tipton Weed

Star Anise	Burned as incense to increase psychic awareness & abilities. Placed on the altar to increase the power generated. Carried to bring luck.
Also Called: Chinese Anise, Anise Star

Straw	Image magic and luck
Straw Flower	Luck, longevity, and protection. Use in magic to get the effects to last. The flower of Samhain, signifying the transition from one type of life to another. Note: Poisonous, use with caution.
Strawberry	Attracts success, good fortune, and favorable circumstances. Served as a love food. Leaves are carried for luck. Pregnant women carry a packet of the leaves to ease the pain of pregnancy and childbirth.
Sugar	Love spells, sex magic
Sugar Cane	Love, lust, and sympathy
Sulfur Powder	Dispels or prevents a hex on you; destroys an enemy's power over you.
Also Called: Brimstone

Sunflower	Energy, protection, power, wisdom, and wishes.
Sweet Bugle	Crush and place under the mattress to attract love and marriage prospects.
Sweet Pea	Attracts friends and allies; Draws the loyalty and affection of others.
Sweet Potato	Image magic
Sweetgrass	Peace, unity, and calling spirits
Tamarind	Love
Tangerine	Promotes energy, strength, and vitality. Awakens joy and dissolves negativity.
Tansy	Health, invisibility, immortality, longevity; keeps evil out of the home. Place a small amount in the shoe or add an infusion of tansy to the bath to keep the law away.
Tarragon	Healing in abuse situations, compassion magic for others. Use for consecrating chalices.
Tea Leaves	Use in talismans for courage or strength. Use as a base for lust drinks. Burn leaves to ensure future riches.
Tea Tree	Eliminating confusion and increasing harmony
Thistle	Healing, protection. Use in sachet or amulet to aid in speedy recovery from surgery or illness. Hang in the home to ward off thieves and unwanted visitors.
Thyme	Attracts loyalty, affection, and the good opinion of others. Wear a sprig to ward off unbearable grief or provide strength and courage when needed. Burn or hang in the home for banishing, purification, and to attract good health for all occupants. Use in cleansing baths prior to working candle magic. Use in dream pillows to ward off nightmares and ensure restful sleep. Add a thyme infusion to the bath regularly to ensure a constant flow of money. Place in a jar and keep in the home or at work for good luck.
Also Called: Garden Thyme, Common Thyme

Toadflax	Protection and hex breaking
Toadstool	Rain magic
Tobacco	Promotes peace, confidence, and personal strength. Also used for banishing. Mix with salt and burn with a black candle to win a court case.
Tomato	Love spells
Tonka Bean	Magical uses include rituals and spells for love, wishes and courage. Worn to gain prosperity & courage. Carried to grant luck & protect from disease and/or to attract love. Promotes the accomplishment of goals. Keep on the altar when performing love magic to enhance intent. Carry in a red flannel bag to attract good fortune and financial success, especially when attending business negotiations or job interviews. A favorite hoodoo good luck charm to make wishes come true.
Also Called: Tonqua, Tonqua Bean, Tonquin Bean, Wish Beans, Coumaria Nut

True Unicorn Root	Hex-breaking, uncrossing, and protection against evil & malevolent magic.
Tuberose	Sensuality, serenity, and calming nerves. Brings peace to the mind and heart, enhances the capacity for emotional depth. Add to sachets designed to increase psychic ability. Use in love magic to awaken erotic feelings and attract romance. Wear or carry to attract inspiration.
Also Called: Mistress of the Night

Turnip	Ending relationships
Uva Ursi	Magical uses include increasing intuitive and psychic powers. Great in sachets for this purpose. American Indians used Uva Ursi in religious ceremonies. Note: Can be poisonous, use with caution.
Also Called: Bearberry, Bear's Grape, Foxberry, Crowberry, Hog Cranberry, Kinnikinnick, Mealberry, Arberry, Mountain Box, Mountain Cranberry, Sandberry, Uva Ursa, Universe Vine

Valerian	Dream magic, reconciliation, love, and harmony. Placed in sachets for love & protection and used in sleep pillows. It is said that having Valerian Root nearby will settle an argument between a couple. Used to purify sacred space. Used as a substitution for graveyard dirt/dust in spells. Use in protection baths. Burn for reconciliation in ailing relationships, but only with the permission of all parties involved in the relationship. Wear to calm the emotions.
Also Called: Valerian Root, All-Heal, Garden Heliotrope, Graveyard Dust, Phu, Setwell, Vandal Root

Vanilla Bean	Magical uses include love, lust, passion, and restoring lost energy. Carried to increase energy & strengthen mental abilities.
Venus Flytrap	Love and protection
Vertivert	Draws money and prosperity, love, and attraction; Overcomes obstacles, breaks hexes, and repels negativity. Place a small amount in cash registers to increase business. Burn to overcome evil spirits.
Also Called: Khus-khus

Vervain	Protection, purification, money, youth, peace, healing, and sleep. Bury in the yard or keep in the home to encourage wealth, protect from lightning & storms, and bring peace. Put under the pillow to prevent nightmares. Use as an incense to end unrequited love. Use in prosperity spells. Carry to prevent depression and/or bring creativity. Use in cleansing baths and rituals before working magic. Use in amulets, sachets, dream pillows, and baths for all-purpose protection of home sand people (especially children).
Also Called: Verveine, Verbena, Brittanica, Enchanter's Plant, Enchanter's Herb, Herba Sacra, Juno's Tears, Holy Wort, Lemon Verbena, Van-Van, Herb of Grace, Herb of the Cross, Pigeon's Grass, Pigeonwood, Simpler's Joy

Vetch	Fidelity
Vinegar	Banishing, binding, averting evil.
Violet	Calms the nerves, draws prophetic dreams and visions, stimulates creativity, and promotes peace & tranquility. Violet leaf provides protection from all evil. Violet crowns are said to cure headaches and bring sleep. Carry or give to newly married couples or new baby & mother to bring luck to the bearer. Keep a spray of violets on the altar to enhance night magic. Wear the leaves in a green sachet to help heal wounds and prevent evil spirits from making the wounds worse.
Also Called: Sweet Violet, Blue Violet, Wild Violet

Walnut	Access to divine energy, bringing the blessing of the Gods, wishes
Watercress	For lunar magic and sex magic.
Wheat	Inducing fertility and conception, attracting money
White Sage	Use as an incense, for smudging or for purification.
White Willow Bark	Brings blessings of the moon into one's life and guards against negativity & evil forces. Used in healing spells.
Willow	Used for lunar magic, drawing or strengthening love, healing, and overcoming sadness. Willow is considered a sacred wishing tree. Wear a sprig of willow when facing the death of a loved one. Place on the altar for lunar magic and divination work. Keep a piece of willow in home or business to protect against evil.
Also Called: Osier, Pussy Willow, White Willow, Witches' Aspirin, Withy, Tree of Enchantment, Saille, Salicyn Willow, Saugh Tree

Wintergreen	Add an infusion to your children's bath to bring them good fortune and luck throughout their lives. Sprinkle an infusion of wintergreen around an area for purification.
Wisteria	Raises vibrations, promotes psychic opening, overcomes obstacles, and draws prosperity.
Witch Hazel	Magical uses include chastity and protection. Carry to ease grief over a lost love. Use in a sachet to reduce passions. Use in love spells and spells to ward off evil.
Also Called: Winter Bloom, Striped Alder, Spotted Alder, Hazelnut, Snapping Hazel and Tobacco Wood

Witches Burr	Adds great power to spells & rituals. Presence of witches burr is said to defeat any kind of evil force.
Witches Grass	Happiness, lust, love, and exorcism. Sprinkle around the home for seven consecutive days to overcome depression and dispense of petty spirits. Reverses hexes.
Also Called: Couch Grass, Rhizomes, Twitch Grass, Scotch Quelch, Quick Grass, Dog Grass

Wood Aloe	Protection, consecration, success, and prosperity.
Also Called: Lignaloes, Lignam Aloes

Wood Betony	Magical uses include purification, protection, and the expulsion of evil spirits, nightmares, and despair. Excellent for magical healing and protecting against dark fears of the emotions & imagination. A good addition to dream pillows. Carry in an amulet to draw love and strengthen the body. Burn to banish disharmony in a relationship. Pass through the smoke of burning wood betony at Midsummer to purify the body of ills and evils. Burn with any uncrossing incense to defeat witchcraft.
Also Called: Betony, Bishopswort, Stachys Betonica, Lousewort

Woodruff	Victory, protection, and money. Place a pinch in your left shoe before a game and your team will be victorious.
Wormwood	Used to remove anger, stop war, inhibit violent acts, and for protection from the evil eye. Carry in vehicle to protect from accidents on dangerous roads. Use as incense for clairvoyance, to summon spirits, or to enhance divinatory abilities. Can be sprinkled in the path of an enemy to bring them strife and misfortune (not recommended, remember the law of threes). Note: Can be poisonous, use with caution.
Also Called: Absinthium, Green Ginger, Absinthe, Old Woman, Crown for a King

Xanthan Gum	Incense bonding agent
Yarrow Flower	Uses include healing, handfasting & weddings, and divination. Draws love. Carry as a sachet or amulet to banish negativity, ward off fear, and promote courage, confidence, and psychic opening. Frequently used in marriage charms and love sachets. Said to keep a newly married couple happy for seven years by keeping their love alive and preventing upsetting influences from entering the relationship. Place in a yellow flannel bag with a piece of parchment on which you have written your fears, carry with you to overcome them.
Also Called: Bloodwort, Death Flower, Devil's Nettle, Lady's Mantle, Soldier's Woundwort, Thousandleaf, Millefoil, Carpenter's Weed, Knight's Milfoil, Sanguinary, Arrow Root, Thousand Seal

Yellow Dock	Fertility, healing and money. Sprinkle an infusion of yellow dock around a place of business to attract customers.
Also Called: Curled Dock, Curly Dock, Sour Dock, Narrow Dock, Garden Patience, Rumex

Yerba Mate	Fidelity, love and lust. Worn to attract the opposite sex. Spill an infusion of yerba mate on the ground to break off a relationship.
Also Called: Mate, Mate Leaf, Green Mate

Yerba Santa	Beauty, healing, psychic powers and protection. Carry or use in bath magic to obtain beauty from within and make your body more desirable. Wear around the neck to ward off illness and prevent wounds. Use the leaves in healing or protection incenses. Use in bath water if you feel your sickness has been caused by a hex.
Also Called: Consumptive's Weed, Gum Plant, Gum Bush, Bear's Weed, Bear Weed, Mountain Balm, Tar Weed, Tarweed, Holy Herb, Sacred Herb

Yew	Raising the dead, protection against evil, immortality, and breaking hexes.
Ylang Ylang	Increases sexual attraction and persuasiveness. Also used for peace, love, and faery magic. Promotes calm, peaceful relaxation and relieves anxiety and depression.
Yohimbe Bark	Love, lust, virility and fertility. Curing impotency. Cursing. Used in Pagan rituals of union.
Yucca	Transmutation, protection and purification. A cross of yucca fiber placed on the hearth protects the home from evil. Use an infusion of yucca to cleanse and purify the body before magick. Repeat this cleansing afterwards if performing spells to remove curses, hexes, or illness. Rub a slice of yucca root all over your body once a day for seven days to remove jinxes and hexes.
Also Called: Yucca Stalk, Yucca Root